# Development Environment Setup

Part of "Personal Website" project in TUACM Summer Mentorship Program &ndash; Web Dev Track with Nikita Zdvijkov.

Back to the table of contents: https://go.nznz.me/acm-summer-mentorship-nz

## Intro

Same as with the last tutorial, don't worry about deeply understanding what you're doing. Just get everything set up and you'll learn the details later.

Take good notes of what you do and what tutorials you follow for the Git setup so that I can pass this know how on to others &ndash; I set up my Git command line stuff a while back.

## Mac

Follow [this](https://www.michaeluloth.com/how-to-set-up-a-mac-for-web-development) tutorial. You don't have to install NodeJS &ndash; you can always do it later &ndash; but it won't hurt. Go with VSCode for a text editor. 

Once you're done with that, run these commands, substituting your name and email as they appear on your GitHub account. 

```text
$ git config --global user.name "John Doe"
$ git config --global user.email johndoe@example.com
```

## Windows

Follow [this](https://github.com/michaeltreat/Windows-Subsystem-For-Linux-Setup-Guide) tutorial all the way to the end. If you need help, I defer to Joseph Mellor `:)` because I'm on mac.

## Connect GitHub to Netlify

1. Go to GitHub. Use the website to create a new Git repository. Call it whatever you want, just don't use spaces in the name. Public/private doesn't matter. Don't bother initializing with `README.md` or `.gitignore`.
2. At this point, GitHub will show you instructions for getting started using your repo. Follow the first set of instructions (involves cloning the repo).
3. Put your `index.html` file without the folder containing it into your cloned git repo. At this point this should be the only non-hidden file in the repo. Command line `ls` to list non-hidden files; command line `ls -a` to list all files.
4. Go to Netlify, and follow the prompts to connect your get repo to Netlify.

## Use git

Research what these commands do &ndash; this is all you really need if you're not collaborating or doing anything fancy.

```
git clone

git add -A

git commit -m "changed this thing"

git status

git log

git push origin master
```
